last time in this surah alman series
like you can't just say okay I'm not at
least I'm not doing anything bad okay
fine I don't pray and I don't I don't do
I don't fast I don't do the good stuff
but at least I don't do any bad stuff
that's not good enough and then other
people are come around and say well I do
a lot of good things but the so what if
I do a little bit of what bad things so
you know Allah says no actually those
who truly fear perhaps he's saying they
earn Both the gardens, the garden of
leaving sin and also the garden of doing
good.
>> To help you follow along and reflect
more deeply, we've created a companion
workbook for this series. Download it at
bayena.com/roman.
Fore!
Foreign! Foreign!
So far there's a loneliness which is why
and and uh this is just about uh the
word but now we we have
now we're going to talk about the
marriage in Jenna the spouses in Jenna
which is going to get me in a lot of
trouble but we're going to talk about
that because Allah talks about that so
I'm going to be to level with you and
share with you what I know of the
subject.
Interestingly,
this is not a question you ladies have
at all. There's other people in New
York, they have this question. Um, so
women in New York seem to have a problem
with how come Allah mentioned spouses
for men and wh for men, but he doesn't
mention anything for women. Right? So
this is a again not a New Jersey
problem, only a New York problem,
specifically Long Island. Okay? So, so
to this is for those women. Um, I my
research team that I'm my interns that
I've kind of put together in Pakistan,
uh, nine of them are females. And we
were studying the surah and we got to
the surah. I was like, okay, I need to
hear from you. Why? How come Allah
didn't mention your spouses in the hood
equivalent for you in Jenna and he
mentioned something for the men? helped
me understand from the female
perspective, right? I put nine of them
on the spot and there was a a good
10-minute silence.
And then the insights started pouring
out and one of them said, "Well,
actually, I don't want a spouse in
Jenna. I I don't I don't know if I would
ever want a spouse. I actually just" And
the other one said, "I would."
And the other one said, "I don't know.
Do I
within the nine there were probably six
different opinions about and I said okay
so let me let me I was like let me
simplify this let me simplify this
ladies tell me if there was three things
that you want in Jenna one two three
three things top three you can have them
what are they
and there was again silence I was like
is it awkward that I'm here I can leave
you could figure this out yourself No,
no, that's not it. And then somebody
said, I don't know, jewelry. And then
somebody said, no, I don't care about
jewelry.
And somebody said, marriage. I said,
maybe for you. I don't really care about
marriage. I don't really care about
that. Uh, what do you want? I don't have
to think about it. I really have to
think about it. And I was like, see,
that's the difference between men and
women.
If you if you took man he said get three
things
like half the stuff is already covered.
I'm sitting food is taken care of.
There's a like
I'm set. I'm already set. You know there
is a complexity to what
women want and there's no uniform
response by and large. Yes, there can be
men that say, "I don't want a spouse in
I just want to solve calculus problems."
There's there's people like that. Fine.
Good for you, bro. Good for you. But
there's enough of the rest of us that
don't want to solve calculus problems.
But within the females, there is in fact
diversity. There is in fact a variety.
And one of the mercies of Allah is he
did not cage what he will give women by
very specific you know lists of things.
The other thing is actually it's an
honor to women because imagine if Allah
did mention women are going to have
these amazingly handsome husbands that
are going to be there for their you know
for their company or whatever. And how
embarrassed would a believing woman
that's her entire character is about
guarding her modesty is reciting these
ayat. How awkward would that be? Right?
So even if they have that desire, the
fact that it's not spelled out is
actually too because it
you know it doesn't it doesn't actually
correspond to the nature of that Allah
put inside women. So even if they have
that thought, it doesn't have to be
spelled out. Allah knows what they want
and that's enough.
You'll have what you desire. If somebody
desires that, they'll have it. Why does
it have to be spelled out? And if it was
spelled out, it might cater to some and
not to others. And others might even be
bothered by it. They're like, "This
whole life I suffered with a husband.
Now I got to get another husband." Like
I like can I Jenna will be when I don't
have a husband, you know, like, you
know, so that could be the case.
Allaham. So So you know, I I earned my
freedom kind of thing, right? So, so but
now coming back to the subject why does
Allah mention these beautiful spouses
that are called that are dedicated for
the pleasure of men and beautifification
of the life in Jenna for men. Allah
created men with an intense desire of
pleasure from the female, emotional,
physical, all kinds, right? The company
of a woman, the fact that he feels when
a man feels like this woman loves me,
she she respects me, she's crazy about
me, she f she she desires me, all of
these things actually are a big part of
the psyche of a male, right? And he he
longs for these things. She longs for
these things, but he insanely longs for
these things, too. And this is actually
one of the biggest driving forces in the
in the motivations of men to go and earn
a living to go and go get out there and
be something in the world because I just
got to get married. I just got to get
married. I I can't get married until I'm
somebody until I can stand on my feet so
that I can get married so that I can do
this. So the part of the aspirations of
men is to become good enough to have a
female, right? To have a wife. So what
Allah and then the other thing is of
course you know in ancient times you
have these Sahabah right they are they
they before Islam came they were just
regular young guys right and there was
no halal haram about relationships and
you know boyfriend girlfriend or this
kind of this none of that was haram and
then Islam came and put a restriction so
they've seen the other side of life
they've seen that and now they've been
stopped from it dead stop And it's not
like they moved to another town. They're
still living in the same place. Some of
those same people are still around. You
understand? So it's not an easy
transition. We just think of the Sahab
as all of a sudden they developed
angelic wings and they you know that's
that's not what happened. They had to go
through a transition and they had to
make a lot of changes in their life. Not
not easy ones. Emotional attachments are
not easy to break. Romantic attachments
are not easy to break. But they broke
them for the sake of Allah. They did it.
That's not an easy thing to do. It
hurts. So what Allah what does Allah do?
Allah compensates the one who protected
himself, guarded himself, withheld his
desires, withheld his temptations, and
then spells it out. You will have these
beautiful spouses in Jenna. And Allah
actually spells out exactly the kind of
woman you want in Jenna. And is what
he's saying here. He says,
the the primary description,
you know what that means? They means to
to remain confined.
means to remain also means short means
to get get a haircut.
Same word. When you do salah, what does
that mean? You shorten the prayer. Her
eyes, her her gaze, her glance is
shortened. Meaning it doesn't go past
you. She's obsessed with you. She's all
about you. You're the center of her
universe. But actually, Alooi flipped it
too. is so brilliant. He said she's the
kind that your eyes don't go past her.
Actually, she's for you. So once you see
her, you're like, I don't I don't need
to see anything. What? What fruit?
What waterfall? Hold the cup. Hold on.
You know this is they're obsessed with
each other. They're completely crazy
about each other. And that's captured
inside of
and then this description of this
beautiful relationship of the spouse is
actually a description of what one of
the great rewards of Jenna. You know in
this world you can be obsessed with
someone but the feeling is not mutual
right you you have you want all of their
attention they give you 1% of theirs.
Right? Or they feel like stop being so
clingy. Stop being so needy. Why are you
always texting me? Why are you always s
just give me some space? You know, this
is a this is a relationship where
they're perfectly happy not giving each
other any space and they they find joy
in that completion with each other.
Right? This is and suggests that this
obsession is permanent. This romantic
obsession is permanent with each other.
They find joy in being with each other.
Now you're now this is like actually
this is Adam's story 2.0. Adamisam was
created. He was alone. Allah created
what for him.
That's his
for him. And now every one of us gets
our own and Jenna, right? That's that's
the idea of
now the this the follow-up question that
some women from Brooklyn have, not Long
Island this time,
is well with if the women are getting
this hur then uh what about me? What
about I mean my husband's going to get
some hur and then where what am I going
to do? Like where where am I supposed to
go? You know he's got this hur and then
I'm just extra and if his eye is not
even leaving her
thank you
u now what do I do? So my answer to this
question may not be satisfactory is to
the best of what I can understand from
the text. Uh Allah subhana wa ta'ala in
Jenna will give us whatever we desire.
That's number one. Number two, our
emotional states are not going to be the
same as they are now.
Any ill feelings, anything, anything to
do with insecurity, possessiveness,
jealousy, those kinds of feelings will
not be the way they are now. The you
know, and I actually met a woman
recently who told me that I have lots of
anxiety that my husband will go to
Jenna.
Yeah. She's a Yeah, that he'll go to
Jenna. He's a really good man. He He's
really good man. He's gives a lot of
sodaka. He does very good. And I just
feel like Allah is going to give him so
many of these wives
and I'm just not going to have him
anymore. And this is like this is giving
me anxiety. Like I love him so much. I
can't I can't be without him. And Allah
is going to take him from me and just
going to put all these other women
there. And he keeps telling me, "No, no,
no. I'm only going to want you in Jenna.
It's you're my you're going to be my
number one or you're going to be my only
one. I'm going to turn all of them
down." And that may be the case.
That may be the case. Just because
they're there doesn't mean that that's
what you'll go for. Allah does design
and I don't believe that the
descriptions of Jenna like fruits for
example. Does every human being like
fruits?
No. Does every human being like swimming
or waterfalls or trees? No. Does a
description of trees and waterfalls and
this caters to many? Maybe even caters
to most. But did Allah describe a Jenna
that caters to everyone? No. You know
what that means? Allah is giving a
general description.
Allah is not giving a a description
catered to every single individual. So
individual cases should not get anxiety
because they see this and say, "Well,
that's not what I want. I want something
else." You know, and what what about
what you want? Well, if every one of
your individual uh considerations had to
be articulated in the Quran, then we
would have to recite ayat about people
solving calculus problems, right? So
that would not be something I want to
recite you know so you understand why it
couldn't cater it doesn't cater to
individual so it so a statement had to
be made that covers everybody and what's
that statement
in it is whatever you will desire for
yourselves and in it is whatever new
demands you will make so even new de
when you get to Jenna your imagination
opens up you're like
I never thought I wanted this but now I
do.
Okay, just ask. Just ask.
And that's enough of a response to to to
calm the nerves of a believer. Look, the
first words were they're reclining and
relaxed.
You you'll be there's not going to be
any anxiety. Nobody's getting short
changed. But regardless, the the this
beautiful
description
has been given
that no jin and human being would ever
have touched them before. From this some
scholars extrapolated maybe gins will
have their own spouses in in Jenna or
they'll at least have spouses. No jin
will have touched the jin spouse before.
No human will have touched the human
spouse before could also mean that no
these spouses have never been um you
know um no wasa has been done from the
shaitan to them. No jin has ever messed
with them before, right? But this this
also speaks to a deeper reality. Of
course, there are people that are
divorced and they get remarried. They've
been with somebody else before, right?
And then scholars started saying, well,
this means these must not be humans
because humans have been with someone
before, many of them. And this is
describing people that have never been
with anybody before. They've never been
touched and never been intimate with
anybody before. So this is a special new
creation that's been created. Now the
last comment on this that I want to to
articulate is I don't think this was a
problem for most of Islamic history.
Uh but we are living in a time where we
project a lot of our own injustices
especially the injustices between the
genders and we project them onto the
religion. So we say, "Oh, this is
degrading to women because these women
are just objects for these men and
they're just they were just designed to
be this man in Jenna, his every fantasy
is this one this that he's been given."
Right? So this is objectifying women.
Actually, it's objectifying this this
creature was created for his desire. But
the believing woman is not an object.
The believing woman is a believer and
she's not been put in Jenna to meet the
desires of a man.
So she's been separated from this
conversation and in it I think there's
also a dignifying of the believing women
that they are actually given their own
freedom to do as they choose you know
and not been caged again. Hey by the way
you were under the the the the kama of
your husband in this life and you had to
be the best wife and you had to be these
things and now you have to be those
things again in the next life. No, you
have your own decisions to make. You
have your own choices to make. But the
spelling it out for the men actually
caters to the nature with which men
Allah created men. Allah put the
greatest desire in men for the desire
they have for for women. And they do all
kinds of things to beat that desire. And
they have to control themselves their
whole lives to not fall into that
temptation. It's not because the
temptation isn't there, but because this
is something Allah put in them. And they
have to fight it. They have to fight
that urge. And they have to constantly
lower their eyes. If this wasn't hard
for a man, Allah wouldn't be instructing
men to lower their eyes, right? Allah
would have said, "Oh, you're happily
married now. You don't have to lower
your eyes anymore. You're past the
temptation now. You're good cuz you're
completely in love with your wife, so
there's no no issue for you anymore. So,
don't worry about it." That's not what
it says, does it? Is it? Because the the
the the appetite, the the waswasa, the
desire that's been embedded inside human
nature, it's in our physiology. Allah
put it in there. He made us put that
only in a halal direction.
men and then he rewards those who
controlled it all this time.
He stopped themselves. And those who
want that to be unleashed in Jenna,
Allah says to them here. And you know
what I really empathize with when I read
this ayah? I I get empathy. There were
young Sahaba, 18 year olds, 20 year olds
never got married or got married. They
were with their wife for one day, then
went into battle and died,
right? Some never got married. Some some
could never afford to get married. Do
you don't you don't think they had the
desire to get married? And this whole
life they may may have thought nobody
nobody thinks I'm good enough. Nobody
thinks I have enough money. Nobody
thinks I'm you know I'm handsome enough.
Nobody thinks I'm worthy enough. And
that feeling of inadequacy because you
know many men live with that feeling
that they're not good enough. They can't
have what they want. Nobody's going to
like them. They're not likable. And
Allah will now give them hey here's
someone who's obsessed with you loves
you and you're going to love them.
Right? So this is actually a need, not
just a physical or a sexual need, but an
emotional need that's actually been
fulfilled in these words for these men
that were deprived. Right?
I'll leave you guys with this one.
It is as though they are
a uh precious stone. Again, a Farsy word
originally. uh precious stones in
multiple colors. It could be rubies, you
know, or other kinds of gem gemstones.
And then marjan we already covered what
was marjan. Do you know
coral gems? So he's comparing these
spouses to gemstones, right? Different
color gemstones. What's the comparison
of the spouse to color gemstones? First,
first of all, Marjan was already
mentioned in this world, right? Timeless
treasure. And now the spouse in Jenna is
being described as a timeless treasure.
And the yak is now describing something
that has eternal value. It never loses
its quality. And so Allah is describing
is something that we cannot have in this
life. The people can be married to each
other like your parents have been
married to each other forever since the
time of Adam.
Right? When the the first week then they
were married when they were married,
they maybe had this situation. the first
month they had that situation, but you
know the kinds of conversations they
have over breakfast now, now that
they're grandparents, you know, now that
they're older, you know how they they
they talk to each other. You know, I
made you eggs. I told you not to make
the eggs. Well, you're going to have the
eggs cuz I made them.
You know, this is this is this doesn't
sound like
and it doesn't uh there's something that
decayed in the relationship. It you
could say the relationship matured, you
know? Uh but really it's decay, right?
It's decay in the relationship. It's not
what they what they sometimes, you know,
couples have trouble and they go to a
counselor, right? And the counselor
says, "Well, can you guys remember the
the time you were happy?"
Right. And you know the what's what's
really confusing sometimes is the guy's
memory of what's what was happy and her
memory was totally different. Right.
It's like yeah I remember you were happy
that day like
but the thing is you have to go back to
a time where you were in fact obsessed
with each other because it doesn't stay
that way. People fall in love, people
fall out of love. situations change,
fights happen, arguments happen, you
know, there there's there's there's
residue, there's scars, there's words
that linger, right? There's expectations
that weren't met, maybe unspoken things,
communication problems, all these things
happen between couples, right? And it it
it takes a toll on the relationship and
your relationship takes a lot of work
for it to persevere. But the Jenna
relationship which is unimaginable for
us and dunya is effortless. It's
effortless. The value between the they
will remain valuable to you as if they
are what? Timeless stones, timeless
treasures. A treasure never loses its
value. It retains and even gains value.
Right? So your your your the way you see
them, the way you feel about them isn't
changing. It's actually staying the same
the entire time. Perhaps in this Allah
has given us a hint towards what
marriage is supposed to look like with
our best efforts in this world. You know
that we're supposed to create efforts to
make the relationship timeless and to
actually work towards this.
This is this is particularly difficult
in our day and age because lowering the
eyes or keeping the eyes on the person
you're supposed to be attracted to,
right, has become next to impossible in
social media.
DMs, flipping between Tik Toks,
Instagram, whatever, right?
There is no more
and there's an overabundance of choice.
There's an overabundance of looking at
another handsome man, another another
beautiful woman. Oh, he's so much more
confident than my husband is. He's so
much more handsome. He's so much
wealthier. He's so much this. He's so
much that. She's so much this. Why
didn't I find someone like her? Why
didn't And these thoughts are constantly
comparison, comparison, comparison,
comparison. You're not And even though
you're physically and socially
officially exclusive with your spouse,
the mind is going everywhere because the
eyes aren't con constrained.
The eyes are not constrained. I met a
gentleman recently. He told me something
so profound. I want to share it with
you. I think it's of absolute benefit to
everybody. This person was uh very
successful in his career and very you
know very famous also and popular and
stuff. So he lived the life like before
Islam. He just kind of lived the life
right. So he was with many women and all
this kind of stuff. finds his dean,
comes back to Allah, you know, you know,
gets married, settles down, and at first
he didn't make any make much of the
fanfare like fans, women are still
coming up to him, talking to him, this
and that. He didn't think anything of
it. Then he just started studying some
Quran and he got to this concept of
lowering the eyes and he and because he
was noticing he was having trouble in
his marriage, right? He wasn't he wasn't
finding his wife attractive. Even though
he was obsessed with her before, he
didn't find her attractive anymore. She
wasn't
anymore, right? He wasn't
towards her anymore. He found other
women more attractive. He found other
women more charming, right? So, there
was this innate suppressed desire that
man, I feel like I'm caged. I could I
could have somebody better. I could have
somebody prettier. Why am I stuck with
this person? That kind of thing, right?
So, he decided to practice just guarding
himself. No more private conversations
with any females. No more, you know,
just looking at someone for the sake of
looking. Just only business, strictly
restricted. And he decided to just he
said, "I'm just going to try this for 6
months." He gave himself 6 months cuz he
he felt that maybe this is something
that's like holding my breath. I can't
do it forever, but I'm going to try my
best. Right? So, he goes, "I have never
been this much relieved of anxiety. I've
never been this happy in my life. I've
never been this obsessed with my wife.
I've never been this happy with my
family. Now actually I used to feel like
the only way I can get release and feel
good is if I go out to a party, if I go
out with my friends, you know, meet meet
people and socialize and see beautiful
women and all this stuff. Now when I
feel like I just want to have a good
time, I just want to go home and spend
time with my wife and spend time with my
kids. And I was like that is actually
revolutionary because that's now a rare
commodity, right? But what what was his
secret? How did he rediscover rewire? He
literally described it as I rewired my
brain. I feel like it's rewired where I
and I now find pleasure in my family. I
find pleasure. I don't find
responsibility and burden and I guess
I'm stuck. You know, I that's not what
he feels. He actually feels joy in his
family. This is such a serious thing,
guys, because and I'm talking to the men
now. You know, you guys, you don't have
I I know for a fact Muslim men don't
have a safe space to be able to talk
about what they really feel. I know
that. And so I'm I'm going to say some
things to you that maybe you don't want
to hear, but I'm going to tell them.
Just pretend you're not listening. So
if you don't address that not finding
joy in your family and you're you're
holding that inside and the relationship
you have with your spouse is just
getting darker and darker and darker and
you you you're doing it because you're
supposed to. You're living it because
you're supposed to, but there's no
genuine joy in it anymore. There's no
genuine love in it anymore. and you're
scared to verbalize that and say, "Hey,
I'm not feeling something I'm supposed
to feel. I need to do something about
that." If you don't reach out for help,
then you're going to ruin your life and
her life and your kids' life. If you
don't get help, you need help. And
hopefully the f the best person who can
help you is your spouse themselves. But
the thing the thing is when you turn to
her for help
you cannot say what did you say
I'm sorry what you're not happy if
anyone has a reason to not be happy it's
me
and you start flipping it as you should
be grateful that you have what you have
and you're so ungrateful and you're so
this and then you shame him into silence
again and you say, "I'm sorry I
expressed my feelings. I'll rewire my
feelings according to your anger
so that you don't have to ever hear
these uncomfortable words again." Right?
So, you can silence him with your
reaction or you could say, "You know
what? I feel the same way. I feel like
there's no joy in this marriage anymore.
We need to do something about that."
You if you can have you can have an not
a defensive conversation, an honest
conversation, a vulnerable conversation
about restoring the joy in marriage.
Because if you don't have joy in your
marriage and you don't have pleasure in
your marriage and you don't have
happiness in your marriage, then you're
both in Shaitan's playground.
Guaranteed. Guar. There's no like maybe.
Guaranteed you're in Shaitan's
playground and you're ruining the next
generations of Muslims. This is a
responsibility bigger than yourself.
bigger than yourself. You have to have
the bravery and the sincerity to be able
to have that conversation with your
spouse. That's absolutely fundamental
and essential. This is a joy of Jenna.
But it's a joy of Jenna. Everything that
Allah describes about Jenna is something
people want when here. They want it
here. And the closest taste of Jenna in
this life is a good spouse.
And it's not just a spouse that prays
five times a day because you could pray
12 times a day and still be a terrible
spouse. But there's something else
between you and your spouse. The husband
to the wife, the wife to the husband.
That is a separate issue. That's a
completely separate issue. And you have
to turn that into some degree as much as
you can of
you. Your eyes must be restricted
towards her hers to towards you. I'm
going to give you guys real talk then
I'll give you your break.
What what's keeping that from happening?
You know, you when you marry somebody,
of course you find them beautiful. Of
course you find them attractive. But you
know what makes somebody unattractive is
their words and their behavior and their
attitude and their body language or the
hurtful things they said and they never
take back. And even when they take it
back, they make it worse before they
make it better. You know, there's a
there's some people that when you say,
"Hey, you said this is really hurt."
They process that for a second and then
they say, "Oh, yeah." And then they say
something 10 times more hurtful and then
later they say sorry, right? They're
they're in a habit of making things a
lot worse before they make things any
better, right? And there's this they've
developed this self-destructive
mechanism. These kinds of things, it's
like you punch someone and then you say,
"Sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry."
Then next time you punch them again,
they say, "Okay, okay, okay, sorry,
sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry." Over time,
what is the person who keeps getting
punched? Do you think they feel the same
about you? Do you think they like being
around you then? Whether it's the
husband or the wife, both can do this,
by the way. You think they just want to
be around you? They they don't find any
joy being with you. They're just there
with you because they're supposed to be,
not because they want to be. And until
that supposed to be becomes want to be,
we're in trouble. We're just that's just
trouble. So Allah is giving us some very
serious hints here at what's supposed to
happen in this life. What's remarkable
in the Quran is Allah did not talk about
how to have a healthy marriage. You know
that
he didn't. He just one ayah inah here's
the purpose of marriage. That's it.
There's no here's what you do when
you're having trouble or here's how you
fix your marriage. Nope. A whole surah
on divorce
and then five pages in bakar on divorce
but no long discussions on a healthy
marriage. You know why? Because Allah
made you and I capable of figuring it
out. Anything you can figure out
yourself, Allah is not going to give you
instructions. He said enough.
It's a principle. Say the upright thing,
be straightforward, Allah will fix your
situation.
This what Allah as a rule, man. If you
apply that rule, how many times you have
something in your heart you want to say
to your spouse, you don't say it. How
many times is something in your heart
you're like, "Nope, not safe enough to
say. Not safe enough to say." You keep
building that up inside, you're going to
develop a resentment. Farthest thing
from isn't it? And when you don't have
that, then everything else looks
shinier. Everything else looks more
attractive except what you have both for
the husband and for the wife. And then
imagine the damage that does to the
children. Right? So may Allahel give us
the strongest marriages, the most
beautiful marriages and the most the
most vulnerable, honest marriages in
which we can speak our our fears, our
anxieties, the things that are bothering
us, the things that can make the
marriage better from our perspective. I
pray that Allah gives us the courage to
have that conversation so we can get a
glimpse of what we're going to get in
Jenna here, you know. And the last
comment about this is on possessiveness.
Allah put in our nature possessiveness.
But don't con don't confuse
possessiveness with ownership.
Possessiveness is temporary.
Like a mother is possessive of her
child. Yes or no? Yeah. But on judgment
day, what's she do? What's she doing to
a child? You know, right? She's dropping
a child. You know that, right?
Right. What is Allah telling us? These
feelings that we have that are very
strong, they are limited to this planet.
this existence
there. There's another life that's
coming where the possessiveness of this
world and the feeling the strong
feelings of this world many of those
feelings will be evolved into something
much more mature, much more beautiful,
much more strong. It's not going to have
insecurity in it. It's not going to have
anxiety in it. It's not going to have
fear in it. All the negatives, all the
negative feelings can be captured in the
word.
We will pull out any negative feelings
they may have had. Any negative feelings
they may have. All so we're going to be
emotionally a different species when
we're resurrected, when we're put in
Jenna. So don't project what's happening
here with what's going to happen in
Jenna. This is a that's a new life. It's
a new existence that's defined by joy
and is defined by permanent joy for both
men and women.
>> Coming up next time in this surah al
Rahman series
>> when we approach the Quran, what state
does my heart have to be in? What
emotional state do I have to be in? What
is my attitude towards this book? Look,
we believe the word of Allah is perfect.
We believe the word of Allah is from
Allah himself. It has it has guidance.
All of that's fine.
But practically speaking, when you open
up the Quran and you start to study a
surah, you have to mentally prepare
yourself and tell yourself
that everything in the surah is perfect.
I'm not.